 UAV Package Delivery Model for Denver County

Amazon, Google, and UPS continue to investigate unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs)
for home package delivery. NASA and the FAA are attempting to develop the
technological and regulatory infrastructure needed for UAVs in many
industries, including package delivery. However, decisions are being made by
both agencies that would affect delivery service without a public model to
evaluate the effects of their decisions. For instance, should heliports at
hospitals, police departments, and news agencies continue to require 5 mile
radius no-fly zones? Should schools, government buildings, major shopping
areas and parks also be protected by no-fly zones, and if so how large? How
should flying over roads and highways be managed? And for delivery services and
potential customers, how will package delivery time and UAV requirements be
affected by these decisions?


The first part of the project will seek to answer these questions by creating
package delivery models for Denver County. At the minimum two models will be
constructed: a lightly constrained model that considers only a few no-fly zones
(such as flying around skyscrapers) where "as the crow flies" routes are more
the norm, and a constrained model where many locations are protected by no-fly
zones, flight paths are largely nonlinear and aerial "highways" likely emerge
as the safest routes for package delivery to most locations. Package
delivery time and UAV requirements will be compared between simulations.
Analysis will consist of routing problems solved via graph theory using data
aggregated from the US. Census, the DenverOpenData catalog, Wikipedia, and
Google Maps via the JavaScript API. Results will be visualized on Google Maps
and, if time allows, D3.


The second part of the project addresses the final step of delivery: package
drop-off at the customer's home. In Amazon's conception of this step, the
customer places a 1'x1' sign with the Amazon logo flat on the ground near their
home where they want the UAV to land. As the UAV nears the home it switches
from GPS navigation to an on-board camera that looks for the sign and positions
itself over it to land. This is too restrictive. Based on conversations with
Dr. Winkler at DigitalGlobe, it should be possible to classify and rank
potential landing zones around a home using high resolution multispectral
images from DigitalGlobe's WorldView satellites. These landing zones could serve
as default landing locations that would not require the customer's presence for
deliveries. This portion of the project aims to demonstrate proof-of-concept
for a manageable area and number of images, say a city block in the Curtis
neighborhood. Analysis will consist of training and testing a random forest
classifier on WorldView images.


In summary, this project will result in a graphical model that will help experts
and legislators understand the impact of their policy decisions on the potential
UAV delivery network, and a classifier model that will demonstrate to some
confidence that customer-not-at-home delivery is possible
